1. For appending all the files in the folder (assuming they share the same structure), Get Data>More>Folder 
As you add new files, simply refresh query and they will automatically append

2. How to customize the Refresh option?
exclude queries that don't change often, like lookups or static data tables
For that in power query editor, right click on table and uncheck the "include in report refresh" option 

3. change date format, continent, country data types from data view

Data vs Lookup tables: Data tables contains number and values with ID or key columns 
Lookup tables provide descriptive, text-based attributes about each dimension in a table

Primary vs foreign keys:
Primary -they uniquely identify each row of a table, and match the foreign keys in related data tables 
Foreign= they contain multiple instances of each value, and are used to match the primary keys in related lookup tables

Cardinality ->uniqueness of values in a column,"one to many" cardinality


Never create direct relationships between data tables, instead, connect them through shared lookups
Arrange your lookup tables above your data tables in your model as a visual remainder that filters flow downstream (kategoriyani lookup table-dan gotur)


Two-way filters are used when we have multiple data tables in the model: for example returns and sales
Design your models with one-way filters and 1-to-many cardinality, unless mode complex relationships are necessary.

Hide foreign key columns in your data tables to force users to filter by primary keys in the lookup tables

Best practices of data modelling:
1. Each table should serve a single, distinct purpose
2. Long and narrow tables are better than short&wide
3.Organize lookups above data tables

Calculated columns:
Use calculated columns when you want to stamp static,fixed values to each row in a table.
Do not use calculated columns for aggregation formulas, or to calculate fields for the Values area of visualization. (use measures instead)

Measures:
Unlike calculated columns, measure values aren't visible within tables; they can only be seen within a visualization like a chart or matrix.
Use measures, when a single row can't give you an answer. (in other words when you need to aggregate)
Use measures to create numerical, calculated values that can be analyzed in the values of report visual

Implicit vs Explicit measures
Implicit measures -> when you drag numerical field into values pane of visual and manually select the aggregation mode.
Explicit measures -> when you enter DAX functions to define calculated columns or measures

&- concatenates two values to produce one text string
&& - and 
|| - or 
in - created a logical OR condition based on a given list (using curly brackets) IN {}

Related ->Vlookup
Counta-> count non-empty cells
distinctcount ->count unique
Countrows(table)> number of rows in table


CALCULATE works just like SUMIF or COUNTIF in Excel, except it can evaluate measures based on ANY
sort of calculation (not just a sum, count, etc); it may help to think of it like “CALCULATEIF”

calculate all mainly for proportions % of total

sumx (sum expression) -> iterate through all rows , then apply aggregation